Mysticism
=========

Definition of Mysticism
-----------------------

--

Evelyn Underhill, *Practical Mysticism* 
Mysticism is the art of union
with Reality. The mystic is a person who has attained that union in
greater or less degree; or who aims at and believes in such attainment

-   What is **Reality**? From this definition only a mystic can answer
    and in terms which only other mystics can understand
-   What is **Union**? From the mystic’s perspective it is not an
    “operation” but an activity which is being done, every conscious
    moment of time with great intensity and thoroughness—we can know a
    thing by unity with it

---

“Marks” of Mysticism
--------------------

(James, *Varieties of Religious Experience*)

-   Ineffability—a negative
-   Noetic Quality
-   Transiency
-   Passivity

--

Ineffability—a negative
-----------------------

-   Mysticism defies expression—no words are adequate its content
-   It must be directly “experienced”
-   It cannot be imparted or transferred to others

--

Noetic Quality
--------------

-   Mysticism is a state of insight into depths of truth unknown through
    discursive intellect
-   The areas of knowledge are “illuminations” or “revelations”

--

Transiency
----------

-   Mystical states cannot be sustained for any great amount of time
-   At times, when faded, their quality can be imperfectly reproduced in
    memory

--

Passivity
---------

-   The mystic will feel that his/her own will were in abeyance,
    sometimes as if grasped and controlled by a superior power
-   The “control” factor will lead at times to secondary phenemena
    1.  prophetic speech
    2.  automatic writing
    3.  mediumistic trance

---

Characteristics (Underhill, Mysticism)
--------------------------------------

-   Mysticism is practical, not theoretical
-   Mysticism is an entirely spiritual activity
-   The business and method of mysticism is love—love is:
    1.  The active, connotative, expression of one’s will and desire for
        the Absolute
    2.  One’s innate tendency to that Absolute, one’s spiritual weight

---

Kabbalah
--------

-   The Torah contains many stories of mystical experiences, from
    visitations by angels to prophetic dreams and visions.
-   The Talmud contains vague hints of a mystical school of thought that
    was taught only to the most advanced students and was not committed
    to writing.
-   writings (**Zohar**) were asserted to be secret ancient writings or
    compilations of secret ancient writing
-   Kabbalah was popular among Christian intellectuals during the
    Renaissance and Enlightenment periods, who reinterpreted its
    doctrines to fit into their Christian dogma

---

Ein Sof and the Ten Sefirot
---------------------------

-   the true essence of G-d is so **transcendent** that it cannot be
    described, except with reference to what it is not
-   his true essence of G-d is known as **Ein Sof**, which literally
    means "without end," which encompasses the idea of His lack of
    boundaries in both time and space.
-   The **Ein Sof** interacts with the universe through ten emanations
    from this essence, known as the **Ten Sefirot**.

---

10 Sefirot
----------

-   Keter (the crown),
-   Chokhmah (wisdom),
-   Binah (intuition, understanding),
-   Chesed (mercy) or Gedulah (greatness),
-   Gevurah (strength),
-   Tiferet (glory),
-   Netzach (victory),
-   Hod (majesty),
-   Yesod (foundation) and
-   Malkut (sovereignty).

--

*The middle five qualities are mentioned explicitly and in order at I
Chronicles 29:11: Yours, O L-rd, is the greatness (gedulah), the
strength (gevurah), the glory (tiferet), the power (netzach), and the
splendor (hod)*.

---

journal repsonses 02
--------------------

--

### “God of the OT/NT”

… Another question that I have is the difference between the God of the old testament compared to the God of the new testament. From what I understand is that in Judaism, they believe in the Old Testament of the Bible and not the new. So is God the same in both Judaism and Christianity. "

--

### Cruelty

The cruelty is what surprised me from this reading. Removing a tooth with a rusty spoon, burning babies, and public hangings are only a few of the autrocities committed. I was somewhat aware of the events that occurred in the Holocaust but i don't think I will ever be able to fully grasp the horrors that occurred.

--

### Cruelty

"How did the SS officers and other workers at the camps commit so much brutality to living people? What was so convincing about Hitler and his arguments that men believed that all Jews should be exterminated? Similarly to the connection Wiesel felt to his father, what were other motivators for others in the camp to continue on?"

--

### Giving witness

A surprising moment I had while reading this was how he described his experiences. For him to have to witness children being killed, raped, and even seeing his own loved ones die in front of him is so surprising and even scary in many situations. Also another surprising thing is that Elie Wiesel began writing after a ten-year self-imposed vow of silence about the Holocaust. And the fact that "Night" is not meant to be an all-encompassing discourse on the experience of the Holocaust; instead, it depicts the extraordinary personal and painful experiences of a single victim.

--

### Desensitizing

Any time I read first hand accounts of the holocaust it is very unsettling because it is easy to be desensitized to it. Reading about the smell of burning flesh is very disturbing

--

### Why?

"Why did he have to go through the Holocaust? Why was there a Holocaust? How could someone be so evil and not feel a thing while killing others? What would Elie Wiesel's life been like if this did not happen? How did he not lose his faith with all that has happened to him?"

--

### God

Eliezer's struggle with God not being there connects with our discussion of dualism from the previous readings. Elie knows that as a Jew he believes God is always with him; however, he does not see how if God is with him if he is allowing what is happening in the concentration camps to continue to happen. Elie has a real struggle with this concept. This can also be related to our reading of SIddhartha when he is having a problem with getting a sense of who he is. Elie is struggling to find out if he really is a Jew or not because he does not believe God is with the Jews in the concentration camps

--

### Loss of faith

I didn’t realize to what degree the Jews lost their faith. Elie lost his faith rather quickly, which he vocalizes in the novel, along with resentment to those who still praised God. In contrast, Akiba Drumer kept his faith longer, but it went downhill quickly (p. 76-77). Elie said Akiba “lost all inventive to fight and opened the door to death” once he lost his faith (p. 77). I thought maybe some of the others remained faithful, but it surprised me when they forgot to say the Kaddish for Akiba once he passed. This helped me understand the severity of what was going on in the camps.

--

### Loss of faith

Why does he lose faith? Will he go back to his faithful ways? What percentage of the people around him are still faithful? What would convince him otherwise? How does his father feel? What would his father say about his own religion?

--

### Not heeding the warnings

Why didn’t anyone believe Moshie the Beadle when he returned? Why did Eliezer’s family not leave when they had the chance? How could the concentration camps flourish for many years without anyone putting a stop to them? Why did so many people follow Hitler when his goal to annihilate the Jews was unthinkable?

--

### Politics

It would help if I knew the politics of the war better. I have studied in the past, but now after reading this and gaining a new perspective, I would like to study the history again. Also, a better understanding of Jewish tradition would bring more clarity (there are lots of terms I have to look up. Ex. Kaddish).

--

### Kaddish

The Mourner’s Kaddish prayer is mostly Aramaic, not Hebrew, but the alphabet is the same. There are several forms of the Kaddish prayer recited at different times during religious services. This one is reserved specifically for mourners, and is recited daily for 11 months after a parent's death, then annually on the anniversary of the parent's death on the Hebrew calendar.

--

### Mourner’s Kaddish

Glorified and sanctified be God’s great name throughout the world which He has created according to His will.

May He establish His kingdom in your lifetime and during your days, and within the life of the entire House of Israel, speedily and soon; and say, Amen.

May His great name be blessed forever and to all eternity.

Blessed and praised, glorified and exalted, extolled and honored, adored and lauded be the name of the Holy One, blessed be He, beyond all the blessings and hymns, praises and consolations that are ever spoken in the world; and say, Amen.

May there be abundant peace from heaven, and life, for us and for all Israel; and say, Amen.

He who creates peace in His celestial heights, may He create peace for us and for all Israel; and say, Amen.

--

### Care for others in the midst of horror

What surprised me about the novel was the camaraderie seen between the inmates. In each camp, Wiesel describes people who helped him along the way or even offered friendship, such as the musicians. In a situation as harsh and brutal as a concentration camp, it would be easy to fall into the idea of every man for himself. Although this was most likely evident in many cases, Wiesel chose to focus on the concept of sticking together for survival.

---

### Themes in Night

**Theme = Topic + Insight**

- death
- loss of faith
- fire
- night
- fathers and sons
- silence
- God



