# Response to readings 1 (sec 2)<a id="sec-1" name="sec-1"></a>

- spread of 5 major religions: https://youtu.be/AvFl6UBZLv4
- A personal take on the "sacred" https://youtu.be/nrG5Yuwpapc
- Why study religion? http://studyreligion.org/study/courses.html
- sociology of religion: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Introduction_to_Sociology/Religion 

---


## definitions as fluid

"How do religions that don't believe in the constant interference of God (**deism, agnostic**)  play a role of giving religion a definition?
Could the definitions of religion and sacred just be fluid definitions with no set in stone answer? So the **definitions would change depending on the situation and person examining it**. **What boundaries must be established to guide the fluidity of the definitions?**"

---

## range of definitions of "religion"

The surprising part of this reading is that **the definition of religion can have tons of meanings for different people** and how deep those definitions can be. The deep thought put into the chapter helped me to have a better understanding of what people may consider religion.

---

## ordinary vs. extra-ordinary

I would like to know what the extent of "sacred" is. **Can we consider anything partially out of the ordinary to be sacred if we view it as religious**?

---

## What is sacred?

One of the things that surprised me was at the very beginning with reference to the World Trade Center. I had no idea that was **considered by some a sacred place due to the deaths of people's family members**. What also surprised me was the fact that is was considered sacred because I would have never connected that to that landmark. Throughout this reading my definition was greatly challenged because** I thought that sacred forever dealt with God **but as I read on their were a **multitude of different was something was sacred that actually made sense to me as well**.

---

## Right religion?


Within my own religion I would like to know how I can find that deep religious matter internally. One question that stuck with me at the end of the reading was when it asks "Can we ever say that one definition of religion is right?". My main question would be where is the line *drawn where one religion can't be open to understanding another or be open to certain actions or beliefs of another religion*.
---

## transcendence/immanence

I would like to clearly understand what specifically the difference is between **transcendence and immanence**.

---

## immanence/essence

I don't understand what the conversation was about on the bottom of **page 28**"

---

## difference and similarity

I was mostly surprised at just how many similarities there are between different religions **because I grew up thinking they had nothing in common and only one was the "right" religion**. I was also surprised at the fact that a single religion can be so different for all of those who interpret it even though it is the same religion.

---

## volitional control

I would like to have better examples of the **sacred reality can have volitional control over human beings**. I do not fully understand that concept, and i think it could be better explained.

---

## scientific to humanistic

"As Rudolf Otto put it, "the holy". The fear, love, surrendering, passion, etc of religion is what drives people to religion (also a fear of death and a general uncertainty about life's purpose). **And this is something so beautiful about humanity and its draw towards religion: faith and love for the unknowable**. 
I also learned to divorce my scientific, evidence-based perspective of religion and substitute it for a humanistic, philosophic viewpoint. This will help me more accurately assess the cultural impact of religion. "
