Mysticism
=========

Definition of Mysticism
-----------------------

--

Evelyn Underhill, *Practical Mysticism* 
Mysticism is the art of union
with Reality. The mystic is a person who has attained that union in
greater or less degree; or who aims at and believes in such attainment

-   What is **Reality**? From this definition only a mystic can answer
    and in terms which only other mystics can understand
-   What is **Union**? From the mystic’s perspective it is not an
    “operation” but an activity which is being done, every conscious
    moment of time with great intensity and thoroughness—we can know a
    thing by unity with it

---

“Marks” of Mysticism
--------------------

(James, *Varieties of Religious Experience*)

-   Ineffability—a negative
-   Noetic Quality
-   Transiency
-   Passivity

--

Ineffability—a negative
-----------------------

-   Mysticism defies expression—no words are adequate its content
-   It must be directly “experienced”
-   It cannot be imparted or transferred to others

--

Noetic Quality
--------------

-   Mysticism is a state of insight into depths of truth unknown through
    discursive intellect
-   The areas of knowledge are “illuminations” or “revelations”

--

Transiency
----------

-   Mystical states cannot be sustained for any great amount of time
-   At times, when faded, their quality can be imperfectly reproduced in
    memory

--

Passivity
---------

-   The mystic will feel that his/her own will were in abeyance,
    sometimes as if grasped and controlled by a superior power
-   The “control” factor will lead at times to secondary phenemena
    1.  prophetic speech
    2.  automatic writing
    3.  mediumistic trance

---

Characteristics (Underhill, Mysticism)
--------------------------------------

-   Mysticism is practical, not theoretical
-   Mysticism is an entirely spiritual activity
-   The business and method of mysticism is love—love is:
    1.  The active, connotative, expression of one’s will and desire for
        the Absolute
    2.  One’s innate tendency to that Absolute, one’s spiritual weight

---

Kabbalah
--------

-   The Torah contains many stories of mystical experiences, from
    visitations by angels to prophetic dreams and visions.
-   The Talmud contains vague hints of a mystical school of thought that
    was taught only to the most advanced students and was not committed
    to writing.
-   writings (**Zohar**) were asserted to be secret ancient writings or
    compilations of secret ancient writing
-   Kabbalah was popular among Christian intellectuals during the
    Renaissance and Enlightenment periods, who reinterpreted its
    doctrines to fit into their Christian dogma

---

Ein Sof and the Ten Sefirot
---------------------------

-   the true essence of G-d is so **transcendent** that it cannot be
    described, except with reference to what it is not
-   his true essence of G-d is known as **Ein Sof**, which literally
    means "without end," which encompasses the idea of His lack of
    boundaries in both time and space.
-   The **Ein Sof** interacts with the universe through ten emanations
    from this essence, known as the **Ten Sefirot**.

---

10 Sefirot
----------

-   Keter (the crown),
-   Chokhmah (wisdom),
-   Binah (intuition, understanding),
-   Chesed (mercy) or Gedulah (greatness),
-   Gevurah (strength),
-   Tiferet (glory),
-   Netzach (victory),
-   Hod (majesty),
-   Yesod (foundation) and
-   Malkut (sovereignty).

--

*The middle five qualities are mentioned explicitly and in order at I
Chronicles 29:11: Yours, O L-rd, is the greatness (gedulah), the
strength (gevurah), the glory (tiferet), the power (netzach), and the
splendor (hod)*.

---

journal responses
-----------------

### others’ culpability

I was able to visit Dachau in Germany over spring break and reading Night brought up a lot of the same emotions I felt while walking through the concentration camp. Both made me feel ashamed, disgusted, remorseful, and heartbroken. Reading Elie's story after visiting a camp, I feel, enhanced my uneasy emotions, my understanding of places he described ,and the embarrassment of being apart of a country that was oblivious to the events for far too long.

--

### Survival

It surprised me how much of Elie's survival was because of his father. I think we all have been told or know that things are easier when done with another person, but this story puts a new meaning to that. Sometimes doing it for yourself is not enough to succeed.

--

### Religious faith in the camps

What was the overall religious feeling of the Jews in the camps? Was there a consensus, or was it every man and woman for him/herself?

--

### Losing faith

What should happen to people such as Ellie who lose their faith? How can one lose their faith in an action such as the holocaust?

--

### (answer re. sisters’ survival)

Elie Wiesel's older sisters, Hilda and Beatrice, survived their internment at the Auschwitz concentration camp, met Wiesel after the camps were liberated and eventually immigrated to North America. Wiesel's younger sister, Tzipora, died in Auschwitz. \[link\](<https://www.reference.com/history/happened-elie-wiesel-s-sisters-379bc991669628ef>)

--

### Faith and the holocaust

The time I read the book in high school I did not catch all the religious references I did this time. The Scared Quest chapter regarding the problem of evil references the Jews understanding to the Holocaust as being tested by God. I did not have very good understanding of how religion played a part into the Holocaust until reading both *Night* and the *Scared Quest*. It's surprising that some people were still able to maintain their faith dealing with such harsh conditions.

--

### Faith in the midst of holocaust

Was there any group of people who actually didn't lose their faith? I think it would be interesting to hear of someone who stands up for their religion (be it God, or whomever), and justifies the actions that are taking place.

I would like to know more in regards to people losing their faith during the holocaust. I would be interested to know of anyone who justified the holocaust in their faith and held strongly in their faith.

--

### Others caught up in holocaust?

The book mentioned other people rather than Jews were also kept in the camp, but I was wondering what all the other groups of people were. I also want to know what the German's views were of these other groups of people.

-   gypsies
-   mentally disabled
-   homosexuals
-   Russian prisoners
-   Society’s expendables

--

### How could it happen?

Even after classes specifically based on holocaust and intolerance and years of studying the Holocaust, I still cannot fathom how something so major and evil could have happened under the nose of the world. I have studied why Hitler was able to rational his orders and the Final Solution, but that is not good enough for me and I cannot imagine how he so casually went about it all.

---

### Themes in Night

**Theme = Topic + Insight**

- death
- loss of faith
- fire
- night
- fathers and sons
- silence
- God

--
