
# Response to readings 1 (sec 1)<a id="sec-1" name="sec-1"></a>

- spread of 5 major religions: https://youtu.be/AvFl6UBZLv4
- A personal take on the "sacred" https://youtu.be/nrG5Yuwpapc
- Why study religion? http://studyreligion.org/study/courses.html
- sociology of religion: http://en.wikibooks.org/wiki/Introduction_to_Sociology/Religion 

---

## science and religion?<a id="sec-1-1" name="sec-1-1"></a>

In the reading the author explains that religion "is an attempt to explain what cannot otherwise be explained" clarified why religion practices are apart of society (16). This also helps to explain why science and religion conflict.

---

## higher being?<a id="sec-1-2" name="sec-1-2"></a>

Can sacred reality and/ or sacred experiences be achieved from an individual who does not believe in a higher being ?

---

## God/gods<a id="sec-1-3" name="sec-1-3"></a>

Do people feel strongly about religion because of their love or their fear of God/the Gods? Are there wrong ways to define religion? When a place is sacred, what rules go along with it in terms of how to visit that place or approach it?

---

## human welfare and sacred<a id="sec-1-4" name="sec-1-4"></a>

How does human welfare play a role in something or some being sacred? What are some specific ways in which sacred is manifested in religion that is not in the bible? These are some questions I had after the reading.

---

## World trade center/ what is sacred<a id="sec-1-5" name="sec-1-5"></a>

Do people really think that the World Trade Center is sacred place for all the victim after the bombing in 9/11? Why did people think there are place, time, event, and animal that is sacred? Is religion and sacred have the same meaning to people?

---

## sacred objects?<a id="sec-1-6" name="sec-1-6"></a>

I would like to know what God believes is the most important aspect of religion and what Object in church he would find to be the most Sacred.

---

## sacred and God?<a id="sec-1-7" name="sec-1-7"></a>

Can people consider something sacred without believing in a higher power or God? Is there only a direct link between something being sacred and a creator? If not, what would be the word to describe this relationship?

---

## non-religious as sacred?<a id="sec-1-8" name="sec-1-8"></a>

I was very surprised that the text did not describe non religious items as sacred. I was shocked that the text focused mostly on religious writings as the only thing sacred. Can we consider things outside of religion as sacred without undermining religion? 

---

## philosophical approach<a id="sec-1-9" name="sec-1-9"></a>

"You cannot reject religion with ultimate seriousness, because ultimate seriousness, or the state of being ultimately concerned, is itself religion." This statement is quoted from Sacred. After reading this, I couldn't help but to ask myself: 'Are all people religious?' Because in some way, all people are ultimately concerned with something that either concerns themselves, or the world around them

---

## appeasing gods<a id="sec-1-10" name="sec-1-10"></a>

Learning about how the sacred has been attempted to be controlled by things such as sacrifice, dancing, and offerings is intriguing, because when I read about things like that, I didn't immediately connect that these were methods of appeasing gods through "sacred" actions.

---

## Nirvana and suffering<a id="sec-1-11" name="sec-1-11"></a>

I need a better understanding about Nirvana. Why must one suffer to obtain the ultimate goal in life?

---

## more religious?<a id="sec-1-12" name="sec-1-12"></a>

My question would be how can one thing be more religious than the other , if religion is not just one thing?

---

## surprise?<a id="sec-1-13" name="sec-1-13"></a>

This book is not what I imagined it would be. I went into this course thinking that we would learn about the religions of the world, not specifically what they may mean to people or a community. I am pleasantly surprised by this. It also surprised me that the authors of this text, Cunningham and Kelsay, are able to think about all of these topics without any hints of personal bias to any of the religions or people that they use as examples and evidence.
